
                             4DOS v7.01

                  README.TXT -- December 21, 2001

                          JP Software Inc.
                           P.O. Box 1470
                    E. Arlington, MA 02474, USA

                           (781) 646-3975
                         fax (781) 646-0904
                       Email sales@jpsoft.com
                     Web http://www.jpsoft.com/


Greetings, and thanks for trying 4DOS!

This file contains a variety of information you should read before using
4DOS, including:

      Installation and "Branding" Notes
      New Version Overview
      Files Included with this Version
      Technical Support and Downloads
      Legal Notices

Other information is available in other files:

      For ...                                See ...
      -----------------------------------    ------------
      Product and upgrade information        PRODUCTS.TXT
      Support plan information               SUPPORT.TXT
      New customer order form                ORDFORM.TXT
      Current customer upgrade order form    UPGFORM.TXT
      Introduction and Installation Guide    4DOS.TXT
         (introductory documentation)
      Complete list of new features          Online help
      Trial version information              TRIAL.TXT
      License agreements                     LICPURCH.TXT
                                         and LICTRIAL.TXT


INSTALLATION AND "BRANDING" NOTES
---------------------------------

   Our products are generally distributed as EXE files which install
   the product when run.  The EXE files are "ZIP-compatible" (i.e.,
   they can also be read as .ZIP files).  Products distributed on CD
   are shipped with individual files visible; the files are not
   compressed into a single .EXE file.
   
   If you have unzipped a distribution .EXE file yourself, or are
   using a CD copy, and prefer to perform the installation manually,
   see the Introduction and Installation Guide in the file
   4DOS.TXT.  The detailed instructions for 4DOS are in
   Chapter 5.

   If you unzip the distribution EXE file manually, you will find
   many extra files which are used by the installer and are not part
   of the product itself.  You can use a command similar to the
   following in the product directory to get rid of the extra files
   (this assumes you have not installed other non-JP Software files
   in the product directory which this command would delete):

     *del /qe file*.dat *.dll _msrstrt.exe unwise32.exe rebootnt.exe

   If you are installing a purchased copy of 4DOS from a CD,
   you can install most files manually by copying them from the
   appropriate directory on the CD if you wish.  However the
   BR4DOS.EXE file can only be extracted by using the installation
   software.  To extract this file when performing a manual
   installation, copy the files yourself, then run SETUP.EXE in the
   CD's 4DOS directory and select the "Brand" option to
   install your name and serial number and copy BR4DOS.EXE to
   the hard disk.

   If you are installing 4DOS under plain DOS (without Windows
   9x/ME) you MUST use manual installation, as the automated
   installer is Windows-based.  In this case if you have a purchased
   copy on CD, you will not be able to extract the BR4DOS.EXE file
   used to install your name and serial number in 4DOS.  If you
   informed us of your need to be able to install and brand 4DOS
   without Windows present, we should have shipped a floppy disk
   containing BR4DOS.EXE along with your CD.  If we did not, please
   contact us and we will ship or email a copy to you.

   When installing 4DOS under Windows 95/98 we recommend that you do
   NOT use a "long" directory name.  If you do, you will have to
   know and use the equivalent short name to load 4DOS in
   CONFIG.SYS; it's easier to simply use a short name from the
   beginning.  (This is not a 4DOS limitation.  It's because DOS,
   which starts before Windows 95/98 and loads the primary command
   processor, cannot handle long file names.  While 4DOS fully
   supports long file names, to make DOS work well it is best to
   install 4DOS in a directory with a short name.)

   You can view any of the documentation files on-line, or copy them to
   your printer.  The Introduction and Installation Guide in 4DOS.TXT
   has page breaks, headers and footers; all other documentation files
   are unpaginated ASCII text.


Branding

   If you are installing a purchased copy of 4DOS, or have
   purchased an upgrade, you may need to run the "branding" program
   to install your name and serial number in 4DOS (trial version
   users can skip this section).

   In most cases the installation process will run the brand program
   for you if it is available.  If it is not, or you need to perform
   the branding manually for another reason, use the instructions
   here.

   The brand program is named BR4DOS.EXE.  In order to perform the
   branding you will need the brand program, and the registered
   name, serial number, and validation code which came with your
   purchased copy of or upgrade to 4DOS.

   (If you have lost your branding information it is replaceable,
   but a small charge is required as recreating the branding codes
   is a multi-step process.  To request replacement codes contact JP
   Software at sales@jpsoft.com, or at one of the addresses listed
   at the start of this file.  You can also check the support area
   of our web site at http://www.jpsoft.com/ to see if an automated
   system for retrieving brand codes has been implemented.)

   To run BR4DOS.EXE use these simple steps:

      (1) Start 4DOS or go to an existing 4DOS
      prompt.

      (2) Change to the directory where 4DOS.COM is installed, and
      verify that both 4DOS.COM and BR4DOS.EXE are in that
      directory.

      (3) Locate the branding information which came with your copy
      of 4DOS (information from other products won't work!).

      (4) Enter the command BR4DOS and follow the instructions on
      the screen.

   If you attempt to brand your downloaded copy and receive the message
   "contact JP Software or your dealer for an upgrade", then you are
   not eligible to download and brand a trial version of this
   release -- instead, you must purchase the upgrade.  See
   UPGFORM.TXT for an order form.  Once you have ordered an upgrade
   you can continue to use the trial version until your upgrade
   arrives.

   If you receive any other error, you have probably mistyped your name,
   serial number, or validation code, or are attempting to use the brand
   program or codes from one product with another product, which will
   not work.


NEW VERSION OVERVIEW
--------------------

Since the last major release we've added over 200 new features to
4DOS!

Here are a very small number of major highlights; for complete details,
see the online help:

   >> Most file processing commands now support a standard
      "@filelist" parameter where the list of files to be processed
      is specified in a text file.  In addition most commands which
      work with files now support the /I switch to match
      descriptions when selecting files to process.

   >> The maximum batch file nesting depth has been increased from
      10 to 16.

   >> There are two new commands:

           LFNFOR:  Enable or disable LFN file processing in FOR
           (for compatibility with COMMAND.COM in Windows 98).

           WHICH:  Show the command type and what command would
           be executed (alias, internal command, external command,
           executable extension, or batch file).

   >> There are dozens of new features in 4DOS commands,
      including:

           CDD can now update specific drives or directories in
           the extended directory search database, without deleting
           and recreating the entire database.

           GOSUB now supports passing parameters to subroutines.

           TOUCH can now select files by attribute (including
           setting the date and time for directories), and "transfer"
           file dates / times from one file to another.

           UNALIAS and UNSET now support wildcard deletions.

   >> New and updated internal variables and functions include
      _CMDPROC, _DOS, _DOWF, @ABS, @ALTNAME, @ASCII, @CHAR, @CLIPW,
      @DECIMAL, @DIGITS, @DOWF, @ERRTEXT, @EVAL, @EXPAND, @FILEAGE,
      @FILEDATE, @FILEREAD, @FILETIME, @INIREAD, @INIWRITE,
      @MAKEDATE, @MAX, @MIN, and @SELECT.

See the online help for 200+ additional new command line tools,
switches, variables, functions and other enhancements!


FILES INCLUDED
--------------

   The following files are included with 4DOS 7.01:

         4DOS.COM          4DOS program file
         4HELP.EXE         4DOS help program
         4DOS.HLP          4DOS help text
         4DOS.TXT          ASCII copy of the 4DOS, 4NT, and Take
                              Command Introduction and
                              Installation Guide
         4DOS.ICO          Icon file for 4DOS under Windows
         BATCOMP.EXE       Batch file compression utility
         BR4DOS.EXE      # Brand program for registered users to
                              install name and product serial
                              number
         CSCLEAN.BAT       Batch file used to restore CONFIG.SYS
                              during uninstall
         EXAMPLES.BTM      Sample batch file demonstrating the use
                              of variable functions and internal
                              variables
         HELPCFG.EXE       Color configuration program for the help
                              system
         KSTACK.COM        Memory-resident program used by the
                              KEYSTACK command
         LICPURCH.TXT      License agreement for purchased software
         LICTRIAL.TXT      License agreement for trial versions
         OPTION.EXE        Program used by the OPTION command
         ORDFORM.TXT       New customer order form
         PRODUCTS.TXT      Product and ordering information
         README.TXT        This file
         SUPPORT.TXT       Technical support contacts, support
                              plans, and paid support options
         TRIAL.TXT         Explanation of trial version
         UPGFORM.TXT       Upgrade order form

      # Included with purchased copies only.


TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND DOWNLOADS
-------------------------------

   Complete details on technical support, including support plans
   and terms and conditions, are in the SUPPORT.TXT file, and on our
   web site.

   Standard, no-charge support is available electronically through
   our online support forum, where our support personnel can read
   and respond to your messages, and other users can respond as
   well.  The forum is accessible via several methods; for complete
   details and access links see the support area of our web site at
   http://www.jpsoft.com/.

   We also offer paid support options which include automatic
   upgrades, an email newsletter, and support by private email or
   telephone.  A premium plan with a guaranteed response time is
   also available.

   If the support forum is not accessible to you, or you need to
   include confidential information in your support request, you can
   also contact us via email at support@jpsoft.com.

   Technical support messages should always be sent as standard
   ASCII text.  Please do not transmit attached files, binary files,
   screen images, or any file over 10K bytes in size to any of our
   electronic technical support addresses unless asked to do so by
   our support staff.

   To download JP Software files, including maintenance updates and
   trial versions, visit:

      >> Our web site at http://www.jpsoft.com/

      >> Our ftp site at ftp.jpsoft.com


LEGAL STUFF
-----------

Copyright 2001, JP Software Inc., All Rights Reserved.  Published by JP
Software Inc., P.O. Box 328, Chestertown, MD  21620, U.S.A., phone
410-810-8818, fax 410-810-0026.

Take Command and 4DOS are registered trademarks of JP Software Inc.
4DOS, 4OS2, and 4NT are JP Software Inc.'s trademarks for its family of
character-mode command processors.  JP Software, jpsoft.com, and all JP
Software designs and logos are also trademarks of JP Software Inc. Other
product and company names are trademarks of their respective owners.

All prices and terms subject to change without notice.

