
                                        [jp-hello, updated 26-Nov-05]


Welcome to the JP Software Support Forum!

This forum is for support of JP Software products, and related
topics.

This welcome message explains our forum policies, the different ways
you can access the forum, and how to leave the forum.  Please read
through all of the information below before using the forum.


Message Content and Support Policies

   In this support forum we welcome discussion of all technical
   issues related to JP Software's products and consistent with
   these guidelines.  This includes technical questions, bug
   reports, suggestions, compatibility issues, and other similar
   topics.  Additional topics may be discussed as well; see below
   for details.

   JP Software provides official technical support through this
   forum.  Our general rule is to provide an initial answer to all
   technical support questions posted here within one business day,
   and in most cases our response is likely to be much faster.

   When posting a technical support question please answer the
   following basic questions:

      * Which JP Software product and version are you using, and
        under what operating system?

      * What exactly did you do?

      * What did you expect to happen?

      * What actually happened?

      * If you saw an error message or other important or unusual
        information on the screen, what exactly did it say?

      * Briefly, what techniques did you use to try to resolve the
        problem?  What results did you get?

      * Can you repeat the problem or does it occur randomly?

   If you post a question here you will receive answers which
   represent the best understanding we are able to gain from your
   message.  However, there is no way for us or any other forum
   member to understand every detail of your operating environment,
   and we can and do make mistakes at times.

   Therefore, it is your responsibility to test any solution or
   other information provided here to verify its usefulness and
   accuracy and assure the proper implementation in your own
   environment.  It is especially important that you do careful
   testing before implementing any solution which may delete or
   otherwise unalterably change your system or data.

   We understand that customers may want to discuss topics related
   to our products or on which other users may have expertise, but
   which are not strictly technical support issues (e.g. the latest
   release of an operating system, the best software to use to work
   with one of our products, etc.).  We welcome these discussions as
   long as they are reasonably related to JP Software products, or
   if not are very short, but we may ask you to let them end or
   continue them privately if the topic drifts too far from
   something we feel is of interest to other members.

   Please avoid using the forum for private messages (use private email
   instead) or trivial comments (e.g. "I agree" with no substantive
   additions to the discussion).


Quoting

   Quoting in this forum should be kept to a minimum, and messages with
   excessive quoting will be rejected automatically by the server.

   Quote only the text you need to establish the context for your reply,
   and intersperse your comments with the quoted material.  Remember that
   other forum participants have almost certainly already read the message
   to which you are replying.

   The increasingly common practice of following your comments with
   a quote of the entire message to which you are replying is not
   desirable, and may cause your reply to be rejected.


Real Names

   We require the use of real names in this forum.

   A name must be provided when joining.  If you join with a name
   that is incomplete or obviously false we will ask you to change
   to your real name in order to remain a member, or we may simply
   cancel or deny your forum membership.


Signatures

   Whether you post to the Forum via the news or email interfaces,
   please try to keep your "signature" short, typically no more than
   3 or 4 lines, and precede it by a "sigdash" or "sigsep" which is a
   line consisting of only two dashes followed by a single space, i.e.
   "-- ", without the quotes.

   The sigdash allows other programs to recognize when the body of your
   message is finished and where the signature begins. This is useful
   for automatically removing the signature when quoting for a reply,
   as well as isolating it from the relevant part of the message for
   display or archiving.  Most current mail and news clients
   automatically produce or at least recognize sigsdashes.

   Note that this is good practice for any Internet email message you
   send to anyone or post to any newsgroup.


Prohibited Content

   Please note that the following types of messages are prohibited
   and that anyone who posts them may be temporarily or permanently
   removed from the forum, with or without warning (depending on the
   circumstances), at our sole discretion:

      * Messages which include product registration keys, any
        any content intended to facilitate bypassing the lawful 
		registration procedure of any software product, and in
        general any content considered illegal in most jurisdictions.

      * Binaries or attached files of any kind.  We will try to be
        friendly in requesting removal of "V-Cards" and other
        attachments you may not be aware of which are added
        automatically by some email software, but we do expect these
        to be removed for messages posted here.

      * Commercial postings of any type other than by JP Software
        Inc.  One-time announcements of products directly related to
        JP Software products are permitted provided they clearly
        state that they are about your product and that the product
        is not associated with JP Software Inc.  If you are unsure,
        ask for permission first via email to support@jpsoft.com.

      * Mass mailings or solicitations of any kind whatsoever.

      * Material which in our sole judgment is illegal, obscene,
        pornographic, bigoted, prejudiced, hateful, or otherwise
        damages the atmosphere or tone of the forum; or which is in
        our judgment otherwise inappropriate or destructive.

      * Messages cross-posted to a set of other forums, lists or
        newsgroups (except compatibility issues posted here and to a
        similar discussion area for the "other" product).

      * Harassment or personal attacks of any kind, whether directed
        toward JP Software, its staff, other forum members, or any
        other person (this does not prohibit complaints about
        our products or services, but they must be directed at what
        happened, and not at any person's character, motivations,
        etc.).


Forum Access

   You can access this forum as a newsgroup, via a web interface, as
   an email list, or through any combination of these methods you
   desire.

   We recommend newsgroup access as it gives you the best control
   over which messages you read, and gives you the ability to see
   the "thread" (message hierarchy) for each topic.

   The sections below explain how to use the various access methods.

   >> Newsgroup Access

         To access the forum as a newsgroup be sure you have set
         your membership to our default of "nomail" (see below),
         then use the URL:

               news://email.sparklist.com/jpsoft_support
           or  nntp://email.sparklist.com/jpsoft_support

         If you use a news reader (such as Agent or Gravity), set
         your reader to access the server email.sparklist.com, and
         read the jpsoft_support newsgroup.

   >> Web Access

         To use a web browser to access the forum and to read and
         post messages be sure you have set your membership to our
         default of "nomail" (see below), then use the URL:

      http://email.sparklist.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?enter=jpsoft_support

   >> Email Access

         To receive forum messages in your email be sure you have

         set your membership to "mail", "digest", or "index" (see
         below).  To post a message, send email to the forum
         address:

                jpsoft_support@email.sparklist.com

   >> Selecting Nomail, Mail, Digest, or Index

         Your forum membership can be one of four types.  If you
         joined the forum through our web page or other links we
         provided your initial membership type was set to nomail by
         default, and you can leve it that way unless you want to
         receive forum messages in your email.

         The types are:

            nomail:  Receive no mail (default).  Use this type when
                     you want to access the forum via the newsgroup
                     or web interface.

            mail:    Receive each message via email as it is
                     contributed.

            digest:  Receive a daily digest with all the messages of
                     the day.

            index:   Receive a daily index of the subject lines of
                     all the messages of the day.

         To set your membership type go to the web page (see Web
         Access above), enter your email address and password, and
         select "Your Settings".  The "Status" field controls your
         membership type.

         To use an email command to change your membership type send
         a message to lyris@email.sparklist.com with a blank subject
         and one of the following single lines in the text, without
         a signature:

               set jpsoft_support mail
               set jpsoft_support digest
               set jpsoft_support index
               set jpsoft_support nomail

   For more complete "technical" details on access methods,
   passwords, and other aspects of the forum see our server
   documentation.  This file is available from our web site at:

         http://jpsoft.com/ascii/jpserver.txt

   You can also retrieve this file by sending a message to
   lyris@email.sparklist.com with a blank subject and the
   following single line in the text, without a signature:

         get jpsoft_support jp-server


Leaving the Forum

   To leave the forum at any time go to the web page (see Web Access
   above), enter your email address and password, and then use the
   Leave button.  If you are signed up as a mail or digest member
   you can also use the information provided at the end of each
   message emailed to you.

   You can also leave the forum by sending an email message to
   lyris@email.sparklist.com with a blank subject and the following
   single line in the text, without a signature:

         unsubscribe jpsoft_support


Legal Notices

   This is a private forum entirely owned and operated by JP
   Software Inc. ("we" or "us"), using the facilities of
   sparklist.com, a California-based Internet Service Provider.
   Access privileges and rules are set and implemented by us 
   at our sole discretion, and by sparklist.com, at their sole
   discretion.

   Your enrollment or participation in the forum indicates your
   agreement to our rules and policies, and any future changes to
   them.  If you do not agree to abide by these policies you should
   not participate in the forum.

   Comments posted to the forum are made by its members and are not
   reviewed prior to posting, and membership in the forum is
   generally open to all, except where restricted by us or by
   sparklist.com.  JP Software Inc. assumes no responsibility or
   liability of any kind whatsoever for the content of messages
   posted here, or for the enrollment or removal of any member.

   Forum contents may not be redistributed by any one in any form
   without specific prior consent from JP Software except that a
   member may quote a message he or she posted to this forum as long
   as no other forum material is included.

   While we will make reasonable efforts to provide what we believe
   are accurate and useful answers to technical support and other
   questions, we make no warranty of any kind as to the accuracy or
   usefulness of information provided here.

   This service is subject to interruption from time to time due to
   a wide range of circumstances both within and beyond our control.
   We make no guarantees of any kind as to its uptime, availability,
   or continuation, or as to the delivery or timeliness of forum
   messages sent to your email address, or viewed through your
   newsgroup or web software.


Copyright 2006, JP Software Inc., All Rights Reserved.  Published by
JP Software Inc., P.O. Box 328, Chestertown, MD 21620, U.S.A.,
phone 410-810-8818, fax 410-810-0026.

Take Command is a registered trademark of JP Software Inc.
4NT is JP Software Inc.'s trademarks for its character-mode 
command processor.  JP Software, jpsoft.com, and
all JP Software designs and logos are also trademarks of JP Software
Inc. Other product and company names are trademarks of their
respective owners.
