
                                        [jp-server, updated 26-Nov-05]


Welcome to the JP Software Support Forum!

This document explains the different ways you can access the forum
(newsgroup, web forum, and email list).

The last section explains in detail the commands you can send to the
server via email to control your forum membership.


Sending Commands to Lyris

   Many of the sections below refer to commands you need to send to
   Lyris, the server software which controls our forum.  In order to
   send a command to the server, email a message to:

         lyris@email.sparklist.com

   The subject of your message should be left blank, and any
   standard signature you use should be disabled.

   In the body, include a single line with the command.  For
   example, if you want to use the newsgroup or web interface, and
   stop receiving forum messages through email, send the command:

         set jpsoft_support nomail

   Some of the things you can set with commands emailed to the
   server can also be controlled with settings accessible via
   Lyris's web interface.  However in this document we cover the
   more flexible email method, as the settings accessible through
   the web interface are fairly clear from the text on the web page
   itself.

   A list of some useful server commands for forum members is at the
   end of this document.  For complete details see:

    http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/5.0/EmailCommandsForDiscussion.html

Forum Membership Types

   Your forum membership can be one of four types.  The types are:

         mail - Receive each message via email as it is contributed.

         digest - Receive a daily digest with all the messages of
         the day.

         index - Receive a daily index of the subject lines of all
         the messages of the day.  You must then retrieve the
         messages you want to read by sending "get" commands to the
         server (see the last section below), or using the web
         interface.

         nomail - Receive no mail.  Use this type when you want to
         access the forum via the newsgroup or web interface.

   To set your membership type send the appropriate command to the
   server:

         set jpsoft_support mail
         set jpsoft_support digest
         set jpsoft_support index
         set jpsoft_support nomail

   The default type is "mail".


Forum Passwords

   You may assign yourself a password when you join the forum, or
   add one later (see the server commands section below).

   The advantage of using a password is that (barring successful
   hacking) no one else will be able to change your forum settings
   via the web interface.

   The disadvantage is that you must remember the password for forum
   access via the web interface, and in some cases when using a news
   reader.


Newsgroup Access

   This is the method we recommend, as it gives you the best control
   over which messages you read, and gives you the ability to see
   the "thread" (message hierarchy) for each topic.

   If you are currently receiving the forum messages via email, and
   you want change and read them via the newsgroup instead, set your
   membership type to "nomail" as described above.

   The support forum is accessible from any news reader, including a
   news-capable web browser (most current browsers support newsgroup
   access).  If you use a web browser to access the newgroup, use
   the URLs:

         news://email.sparklist.com/jpsoft_support
     or  nntp://email.sparklist.com/jpsoft_support


   If you use news reader software (e.g.  Agent, or Gravity), set
   your software to use the server name:

         email.sparklist.com

   Then select the jpsoft_support newsgroup from this server.

   A user name and password is not required to access the server and
   read the newsgroup.  However, you may find that you need to join
   the forum and establish a user name and password in order to post
   messages from your newsreader.  Whether this step is necessary
   depends on your newsreader.  If you find that messages you try to
   post are rejected by Lyris with a response like this:

         Sorry, but Lyris did not find your email address
         "name@domain.com" listed as a member of
         jpsoft_support.

   then use the web or email interface (see below) to join the list,
   being sure to select "nomail" status.

   Once you have joined as described above, you may need to enter
   your username (email address) and password (if you chose one when
   joining) into your news reader software in order to access the
   jpsoft_support newsgroup.

   If you use Forte's Agent or Free Agent and need information on
   how to set up your software for an additional news server, see
   Forte's FAQ page, which as of this writing is at:

         http://www.forteinc.com/agsup/csfaq.htm

   Look for the question "How do I set up Agent for multiple users
   or news servers?"

   The jpsoft_support newsgroup is locally hosted and is available
   ONLY from the email.sparklist.com server.  It is not part of Usenet
   and cannot be accessed from any other news server.  Cross-posting
   and redistribution of Forum contents in any form are specifically
   prohibited.

   When you connect to the server your software may also show you a
   list of other newsgroups hosted by sparklist.com.  These
   newsgroups belong to other sparklist.com customers and are not
   related to JP Software in any way.


Web Access

   Web access allows you to use a web browser with news support
   (most current browsers offer this) to access the forum.  To do
   so, use this URL:

     http://email.sparklist.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?enter=jpsoft_support

   From this screen you can:

         * Log in as an existing member
         * Join the forum
         * Visit without joining,

   Once you have chosen one of these options you can read and post
   messages using the appropriate buttons on the web forms.  In
   addition, if you are logged in as a member you can change your
   forum options.

   If you are currently receiving the forum messages via email, and
   you want to stop receiving the email and read messages via the
   web interface instead, send this command to the server:

         set jpsoft_support nomail


Email Access

   With email access all messages posted to the forum are
   automatically sent to your mailbox.  The way you receive the
   messages depends on your membership type (mail, digest, or
   index).  See the section on membership types above for details.

   To post a message, send email to the forum address:

         jpsoft_support@email.sparklist.com

   (Do NOT send server commands to this address.  It is only for
   posting actual substantive messages to the forum.)

   When you send a reply to a forum message the reply will normally
   go to the forum as well.  If you wish to reply privately, use the
   appropriate options in your email software to reply to the "From"
   address in the original message, instead of the "Reply-to"
   address.


Server Commands

   In order to send commands to Lyris, the server software which
   controls our forum, send email to:

         lyris@email.sparklist.com

   The subject of your message should be left blank, and any
   standard signature you use should be disabled (or use the "end"
   command explained below).  In the body of the message include
   your commands, one per line.

   Except when subscribing or unsubscribing, your command must be
   sent from the email address at which you joined the forum.
   Commands from other addresses will be rejected.

   Many of the server commands explained here are equivalent to
   options available form the web interface described above.

   The server commands are:

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      subscribe

         Subscribe the sender to the forum.  The format is simply:

               subscribe jpsoft_support your name

         For example:

               subscribe jpsoft_support Mark Zbikowski

         If you want to place a password on your forum options (see
         the section on passwords above), add the "pw=" modifier:

               subscribe jpsoft_support Mark Zbikowski pw=DOS

         When you subscribe a confirmation message will be sent to
         your email address.  You will not become a member of the
         forum until after you respond to this confirmation request.

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      unsubscribe

         Remove the sender from the forum.  The standard format is:

               unsubscribe jpsoft_support

         If you are sending the command from a different email
         address than the one you want to remove, use this format:

               unsubscribe jpsoft_support email-address

         For example:

               unsubscribe jpsoft_support me@somewhere.com

         In this case a confirmation message will be sent to the
         address being removed from the forum.  The actual removal
         will not take place until after you respond to theis
         confirmation request.

         [NOTE:  If you receive forum messages in email you can also
         use the instructions at the end of each email message or
         digest to unsubscribe.]

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      set

         Change your membership settings.  The format is:

               set jpsoft_support [option] [option] ...

         You can place as many options on the set line as you wish.
         The available options are:

            mail
            digest
            index
            nomail

               Set the sender's membership type to mail, digest,
               index, or nomail.  See the Membership Types section
               above for details.

            ack
            noack

               Control whether the sender will receive a
               confirmation from Lyris of each message posted to the
               forum (ack), or will not receive such a confirmation
               (noack).  The default is noack.

            repro
            norepro

               Control whether the sender will receive copies of
               their own messages sent to the list (repro), or will
               not (norepro).  The default is repro.

            email=new-email-address

               Change the sender's email address.  The text after
               the email= cannot have any spaces in it.

            oldpw=old-password
            pw=new-password

               Set or change the sender's forum settings password.
               If you do not currently have a password only the
               pw= option is needed.  However if you do have a
               password you must use oldpw= on the sam eline, but
               before pw=, or the new password will be rejected.

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      get

         This command has two puposes.  The first is to return a
         document created by the forum managers.  The format for
         this is:

               get jpsoft_support document-name

         For example, to get this document use:

               get jpsoft_support jp-server

         To retrieve the documents sent when you join or leave the
         forum use one of these commands:

               get jpsoft_support hello
               get jpsoft_support goodbye

         The second purpose of get is to retrieve message bodies.
         This is particularly useful if you read the forum in
         "index" mode and want to retrieve a specific message or
         range of messages after reviewing the index.  The format
         for this type of get command is:

               get jpsoft_support number [number] ...
           or  get jpsoft_support firstnum-lastnum

         For example:

               get jpsoft_support 100 105 106 109
               get jpsoft_support 100-109

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      end

         End of Lyris commands.

         Use an end command when your email software appends a
         signature or other text at the end of each message.  Lyris
         will not process any text after the end command.  For
         example:

               subscribe jpsoft_support Mark Zbikowski pw=DOS
               set jpsoft_support digest
               end
               -- Signature here --

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      unhold

         Resume a "held" forum member.

         If you access the forum via email and your email address
         has been bouncing email for several days, Lyris will
         normally put your membership on "hold" and stop sending you
         forum messages.

         In such a case, send the "unhold" command and Lyris will
         return your "held" subscriptions back to "normal."

         This command does not require the forum name, and should be
         sent simply as:

               unhold

      -------------------------------------------------------------
      query

         Return an email message with your forum membership
         settings.  The format is:

               query jpsoft_support


Copyright 2006, JP Software Inc., All Rights Reserved.  Published by
JP Software Inc., P.O. Box 328, Chestertown, MD 21620, U.S.A.,
phone 410-810-8818, fax 410-810-0026.

Take Command is a registered trademark of JP Software Inc.
4NT is JP Software Inc.'s trademark for its character-mode 
command processor.  JP Software, jpsoft.com, and all JP 
Software designs and logos are also trademarks of JP Software
Inc. Other product and company names are trademarks of their
respective owners.

