
                           JP Software, Inc.

                   website.txt -- November 26, 2005

             FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS SITE


Q: What is the proper URL for the JP Software web site?

  A: The complete address is "http://jpsoft.com/" with a server name of
     "jpsoft.com".  Many browsers will allow you to omit the "http://"
     part.  A leading "www." can be used but is unnecessary.

Q: What is the proper URL for the JP Software ftp site?

  A: The complete address of our public ftp site for anonymous login is
     "ftp://jpsoft.com/" with a server name of "jpsoft.com". You can
     use a leading "ftp." as in "ftp.jpsoft.com", but it is unnecessary.

Q: What software is used on your server?

  A: We are using a Linix machine on which we are running an Apache web
     server.

Q: What are the browser requirements?

  A: Most everything on our web pages should be accessible with most any
     browser with most any screen size. Even the graphics are always
     optional and text-only users can still read and navigate the site.
     You do not need any "plugins" or special components. In those few 
     instance where we might offer JavaScript or simple animations, 
     it is never required. We do NOT use any Java.  Most visitors 
     use Microsoft Internet Explorer or Firefox-based browsers.

Q: Why can't I seem able to access the Online Web Help contents?

  A: The pages under "http://jpsoft.com/help/" require a browser that
     can handle basic HTML frames. If your browser does not meet this
     very common requirement, we suggest you upgrade to a more recent
     version, but you can still view a standalone Table of Contents page.

Q: Which Online Web Help features will I miss if I don't enable
   JavaScript?

  A: The Keywords List and the links within each topic require basic
     JavaScript (no popups or similar annoyances).  You will still be
     able to view all topics and navigate the help pages, but you will
     have to do so from the static Table of Contents.

Q: What tools do you use to create your web pages?

  A: Except for graphics, all source material is created with Macromedia
     Dreamweaver.  The Help files (including CHM and PDF ports)
     are generated by "Help & Manual Authoring Tool", a product of EC
     Software ("http://helpandmanual.com").

Q: Why are some pages different each time I view them?

  A: Many of our pages (both *htm and *.cgi) are created dynamically
     using Perl and other shell scripts.  We also take advantage of
     Server Side Includes to generate some information "on the fly".
     (The "View Source" or "Save As" options of your browser will show
     you the generated code, not how it was created.)

Q: Can I copy the code I like?

  A: All our HTML source is copyrighted material. See our "jplegal.html"
     page for details.

Q: What personal information do you gather about me?

  A: NONE! See our "privacy.html" page for details. The only "cookie"
     optionally used by jpsoft.com is named "htscallerid" and is used
     solely within our Online Store so that you can keep track of your
     own shopping cart but contains no personal data.  If you want to
     see the information you are providing to our site, click on the
     small diamond at the bottom of most of our pages ("JP Software
     welcomes nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn") which will open a page showing your
     numeric IP and other relevant items.

Q: What is "jpsoft.net"?

  A: You may on occasion see references to "jpsoft.net". That is the
     domain name under which we are hosting "jpsoft.com" and other
     sites.

Q: Which JP Software pages reside on external sites?

  A: The Forum pages are provided by and reside on sparklist.com's site.
     The results from a "Site Search" query are provided by and reside on
     whatuseek.com's site.  We typically have no control over and cannot
     be responsible for the actual contents or performance of those sites.

Q: Why can't I access the JP Software site?

  A: To preserve site security, we have to deny access to IPs that fail 
     to meet basic criteria, such as if your forward and reverse DNS
     records do not match, or if your IP is blacklisted in major dependable 
     databases. Contact your ISP or network administrator if you fall into 
     one of those categories. We also implement aggressive content-based 
     dynamic "anti-spam" measures in order to reserve our bandwith for our 
     legitimate users and visitors.

Q: What if my question is not on this list?

  A: Feel free to ask on our Support Forum.  For confidential matters,
     email webmaster@jpsoft.com.


-------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 2006, JP Software Inc., All Rights Reserved.  Published by
JP Software Inc., P.O. Box 328, Chestertown, MD 21620, U.S.A.,
phone 410-810-8818, fax 410-810-0026.
http://jpsoft.com/
